---
title: Bar Logic
date: 2015-05-24
---

# Bar Logic

> appeared in **Dragon Magazine #281**, March 2001  
> Mind Flayers #21, pg 72

-----

"So there I was in this bar in Sigil," says your drinking companion,
Feargal the All-Noxious. "You know, the City of Doors on the Concordant
Opposition, the plane of true neutrality?"

You assure Feargal that yes, you do know.

"Anyhoo, so I'm drinking away when these four guys in dark hats and trench
coats take up the table behind me. The barkeep comes over and gives them a
round on the house, saying he's always happy when a deva, an eladrin, a
devil, and a demon sit down together for a tasty beverage. Me, I'm trying
to keep from turning around, because I've never seen a group made of beings
who were, respectively, lawful good, chaotic good, lawful evil, and chaotic
evil."

Get to the point, you urge Feargal.

"This barkeep, he tells his barmaid to get his friends Aznimul, Barathor,
Codexun, and Dave some of the bar's finest blood and ambrosia. She comes
over and asks each to explain a few things about himself.

"So Aznimul says, 'I'm lawful good, Barathor's evil, and Codexun's
chaotic.'

"Barathor says, 'I'm lawful good, Codexun's evil, and Dave's chaotic.'

"Codexun says, 'I'm lawful good, Barathor lied at least once, and Aznimul
shares the same good/evil axis as Dave.'

"And then Dave says, 'Well I'm not lawful good, Aznimul's evil, and
Codexun's good.'

"Well I don't mind telling you that by this point I was hopelessly
confused. The barkeep later told me that devas always tell the truth,
demons always lie, tieflings tell the truth twice as often as they lie, and
devils lie twice as often as they tell the truth. So given that all three
of them each made three statements, I should know who was what. At least,
that's what the barkeep said."

And the barkeep was right. Who was what?

-----

*Scroll down to find out...*

<div class="bigspacer" style="height: 25em;"></div>

-----

> appeared in **Dragon Magazine #282**, April 2001  
> Mind Flayers, pg. 70

Barathor's the lawful good deva, Aznimul's the chaotic good eladrin, Dave's
the lawful evil devil, and Codexun's the chaotic evil demon. Here's why:

Since three of the drinkers make the claim that they're lawful good, you
know that at least two of them are lying. And Dave can't be lawful good,
because he says he isn't, and if he were lawful good he couldn't say he
wasn't.

That leaves Aznimul, Barathor, and Codexun as potentially lawful good. If
Codexun was lawful good, then it's true that Aznimul and Dave are both evil
(since they both can't be good). Dave's definitely telling the truth that
he's not lawful good, so he must be lawful evil. That means his other two
statements must be lies. But in fact, they are both true: Aznimul is evil,
and Codexun is good. And so Codexun cannot be lawful good.

That leaves Aznimul and Barathor as potentially lawful good. If Aznimul
were lawful good, that means both Barathor and Codexun lie about being
lawful good. Codexun says the true statement, then, that Barathor lied at
least once. Dave also makes a true statement, that he's not lawful good. So
that means that Barathor's the only one who lies all the time. If that's to
be believed, then Dave is lawful -- and because of Aznimul's purity, evil.
So he lies that Aznimul's evil and that Codexun is good. But there's the
problem. If Dave and Barathor are evil, Codexun must be good. And so
Aznimul cannot be lawful good.

Therefore Barathor must be lawful good. This means Codexun is chaotic and
Dave is evil. As the latter is true, his other two statements must be
false. Therefore, Aznimul is good and Codexun is evil. So that means
Codexun is chaotic evil, Dave is lawful evil, and Aznimul is chaotic good.

Note: We made this one extra-super touch by having a tiefling masquerade as
an eladrin. Maybe bartenders lie twice as often as they tell the truth.
