---
title: Book Review - 'My Little Brony'
date: 2015-05-20
library: blog
tags: [bronystate]
---

[skyhorse]: http://www.skyhorsepublishing.com/book/?GCOI=60239100481370&
[amz-kindle]: http://www.amazon.com/My-Little-Brony-Unofficial-Friendship-ebook/dp/B00XTB2KUU/
[amz-paperback]: http://www.amazon.com/My-Little-Brony-Unofficial-Friendship/dp/1634506766/

# Broken Aesop: The Lessons of 'My Little Brony'

> *My Little Brony: An Unofficial Novel About the Magic of Friendship*  
> by K.M. Hayes  
> Published by [Skyhorse Publishing][skyhorse]  
> Available on Amazon in [Kindle][amz-kindle] or [paperback][amz-paperback] format

-----

High school in America is a rite of passage. Some kids consider it the best
years of their lives. Others use it as a stepping stone to greater
aspirations. And still others would say that they didn't graduate high
school -- they survived it. In those four years, one is expected to
discover themselves, their talents, and their desires. They're supposed to
figure out what they want to do with their life, and start preparing to
achieve it. They must also navigate the treacherous battleground that is
the student body, establishing an identity and reputation, make friends,
repel enemies, and come out on the far side a well-rounded human being.

You settle into your interests in high school. The chess nerds hang out
together, the football team drill each other, the preps sneer at the lesser
kids. Everyone has their own little group, and everyone else is certain who
will end up with which group. The six foot tall four foot wide muscle man?
He'll be quarterback. That blonde girl with legs for miles and a smile to
draw anyone's eye? The popular girls. The girls will take home economics,
psychology, and art, and the boys will go into shop, and math, and science.
And the ones who break the pattern? No one cares about them, they're the
freaks.

It's hard being one of the freaks. You can feel like you don't belong
anywhere, or with anyone. Whatever interests you, it's not what everyone
else likes, don't you want them to like you? If you stand your ground
they'll just tease you, or worse. You won't fit in. Sometimes what you've
found for yourself is an interest no one could possibly share, or something
about yourself you couldn't bear to tell anyone. The fear of being found
out tears you apart, until you come across the one other person that seems
to share your interest. And then it turns out they have a friend. And they
have the internet.

-----

No one saw the fourth generation of *My Little Pony* coming, although
looking back on it five years into its run it's hard to be surprised.
Headed by a world-class team of writers, animators, producers, directors,
and voice actors, the new show subverted every expectation to be had of the
classical "little girl" show. Characters with real interpersonal conflict,
potent villains in a girl's show, and none of the saccharine preaching
about everyone just getting along. The show understood that sometimes you
can't get by on just "friendship" alone, and taught important lessons about
finding your own path, and standing by it.

Our protagonist, Drew Morris, is a 14-year-old high school freshman, just
transferred to the large Yearling High School in Austin. Drew lives nearly
an hour outside of town; he was transferred due to a history of severe
bullying at his previous schools. His father, Scott Morris, is a legendary
football coach, commanding five straight championships, and several of his
players go on to professional leagues. Their relationship is strained,
after Drew failed to live up to Dad's expectations of being the next
football star. Drew doesn't know what he wants to do, but he knows it's not
sports, and Dad hopes his influence with the football team will change
that.

On his very first day, Drew meets Skylar Zook, a devoted brony, who shows
up every day dressed as a different pony. Skye is this school's favorite
target for harrassment -- A high school girl into little girl ponies? Grow
up! -- but is confident in herself, and doesn't let anyone get her down.
The story takes place in the fall of 2013, a good two years into the brony
movement, although it seems this school's awareness of it is limited to
Skye's costumes. Drew also meets Emma Lindsey, a well-dressed girl who
carries herself like one of the popular girls, but actually spends her time
sneaking off to the library to read the book's stand-in for Harry Potter.
Her parents, a pastor and church choir director, would strongly disapprove,
as all depictions of magic "harbor evil and darkness". We learn Emma and
Skye used to be the best of friends, until *My Little Pony* came along, and
Skye's interest was kept out of Emma's reach.

And then Drew finds the show. His eight-year-old sister, Holly, adores the
show, and refuses to change the channel when Drew babysits. Out of
curiosity -- and nothing more, of course! -- Drew sits in on the episode
"One Bad Apple", in which the show's youngest ponies are bullied by an
outsider for being different from the other children. This resonates with
Drew, and he finds himself unwillingly drawn into the series. Before long,
he's sneaking episodes in bed, and begins drawing and posting to the
internet, all carefully hidden from his father.

-----

It's here that the book excels, painting an accurate snapshot of the
complex social dynamics of high school, and the perceived implications of
it coming out that you, a 14-year-old boy, are into *My Little Pony*. The
setting is described and filled with a slew of stereotypes and cliches --
the overbearing football father, the bible-belt-raised rebel girl, the
amazing English teacher -- which serves to rapidly bring the reader up to
speed on the state of the world. Life looks like a series of stereotype
boxes to a freshman, and a boy liking ponies is likewise given the
monumental importance it would seem to have at that age. The author treats
the subject with respect, perhaps out of personal experience, and portrays
several characters as being skeptical at first, but eventually coming
around. Most end up checking the show out for themselves, and come away
either intrigued, or at least not as judgmental as they began.

As Drew befriends Skye and Emma, and discovers the vibrant internet
community of bronies, he accepts that it's okay for him to like the show.
So what if *My Little Pony* was traditionally one of the girliest
franchises? It's just a show. Over the course of the book, he finds
strength in his interest, and decides to persue a career in art and
animation, ignited by his love of the show. In the end, the book
successfully delivers the message that while in the moment it may feel like
the world will end if people find out you like ponies, life goes on, and
the terrible shock will pass. 

-----

But the book has another soapbox to stand on, which it invokes frequently
as the story nears its conclusion. Drew's interest in *My Little Pony*
rapidly progresses from enjoyment to obsession, until he feels that all his
friends' problems could be solved *if only* they would watch the show with
him. At first, it seems the book is aware of this unhealthy idea, with Drew
offending his best friend, Quincy, when he doesn't immediately embrace the
series. But instead, the author doubles down on this notion that the show
is the solution, and Drew's friendship with Quincy is instantly repaired
after Quincy catches the show while Holly is staying over for the day. Emma
immediately rekindles her friendship with Skye after watching a few
episodes on Drew's phone over a weekend.

The author elevates *My Little Pony* to a pedestal I don't believe it
deserves. It's a good show, much better than its predecessors, but it's
not a panacea for relationship problems. When Coach Morris catches Drew
sneaking back to school from a brony meetup, he's outraged to discover the
rumor about his son being into the girly show is true. He all but disowns
his son, leaving Drew at the school to find his own way home -- they live
an hour away, remember. Drew is saved by Jake Harvey, in a wonderful moment
of bonding and a complete subversion of the expected tough jock stereotype.
But Drew gets it in his head that if only his dad would watch the show, he
would see it's not so bad. His mother valiantly defends him in a series of
arguments over the following days, often escalating to broken furniture
heard behind closed doors. It's clear Dad won't budge.

But even Dad is thawed out after watching the first two episodes of the
show. He would never admit to enjoying it in the least, of course, no
matter how athletic and sporty Rainbow Dash is, but he does agree to allow
Drew to go to the next meetup. Drew's gambit pays off, when nothing about
Scott Morris shown in the book would suggest he would so rapidly change his
fundamental views on what a man's man can be interested in. The ponies are
the solution to all of Drew's problems, and this isn't confined to wishful
thinking.

-----

The author wants the reader to come away with a good moral: find what *you*
like and stick to it, not just because someone else likes it, no matter who
they are. *My Little Pony* could easily be removed from this book and
replaced with "gay" or "transgender" or any of the other multitude of
issues students of today are coming to terms with; it's all equally
world-shattering to high schoolers. The book falls victim to the
conflicting messages of the brony fandom as a whole, too, assuring the
reader that *My Little Pony* is just a show, it's not a big deal, but also
that this is about boys and grown adults of all genders getting into a
traditionally young female show, which *is* a big deal. Unfortunately, the
author spends too much time singing the praises of the series, and not
enough time developing the greater frame of reference needed to appreciate
how unimportant it is what shows you like.

Overall, the book could stand better on its own if the author used the
reader's privileged position in Drew's mind to inject a more mature
perspective into the events. While Drew might not properly grasp the
importance of, perhaps, Jake and the football team coming to his aid when
confronting Skye's would-be abusive boyfriend, the reader would understand
the effects this would have on the group dynamics -- the "pony freaks" are
clearly off-limits to harrassment, and Coach's turnaround would be
justified by his athletes deserting him for treating his son as the bullies
would. Instead, the book remains firmly grounded in Drew's head, painting
exaggerated and sometimes comically supervillainous pictures of the story's
cast, all attributable to the teenage point of view. This does help the
final morals somewhat, that if Drew can overcome his father nearly
disowning him over ponies, surely the reader's parents aren't that hard to
handle.

-----

It's better to find strength in yourself first, before persuading others to
follow you. *My Little Brony: An Unofficial Novel About the Magic of
Friendship* gives the reader half a message about finding oneself, and half
a fanatical adulation for *My Little Pony*'s latest incarnation, and the
legions of bronies that watch it. I recommend it for the first message, and
for its tender description of the complex and terrifying maze of
relationships that is high school, but I can't recommend it for its praise
of the show. I feel it had the potential to deliver a more powerful and
meaningful message about staying true to yourself, but spent that energy in
service to the ponies, rather than standing on its own.

<i class="fa fa-star"></i> <i class="fa fa-star"></i> <i class="fa fa-star"></i> <i class="fa fa-star-o"></i> <i class="fa fa-star-o"></i>  
3/5 stars, for a promising message, but ultimately misaimed focus













